--- title: Biography layout: default --- 
"About the other winner, flautist Daniel Shao, I had no doubts at all. He displayed virtuosity, charm and charisma in abundance." - Ivan Hewett for The Telegraph Jan 2014

Daniel Shao was born in London in 1995, and currently studies with Kate Hill and Gitte Marcusson, while attending St Catherine's College, Oxford University. Previous teachers include Katherine Bicknell at the Purcell School of Music and Royal College of Music Junior Department, and Susan Milan. He started his musical studies at age seven on the Piano, and began to study Flute at age nine. He has played in many masterclasses to Flautists such as Denis Bouriakov, Rachel Brown, Michael Cox, Gareth Davies, and Robert Winn.

He is a Wind Category Finalist of BBC Young Musician 2014, taking place in Cardiff in March 2014, which will be broadcasted on BBC4. 

Daniel has won prizes in National and International Competitions including 1st Prize at the British Flute Society Competition 'School Performer' 2012, 1st Prize at the International Award 'Carl Reinecke' 2013 in Italy (Junior Category) and 2nd Prize in the 'Ernest Bloch' International Music Competiton 2013 (broadcasted on Israel's Classic FM). He was the joint winner of the 2013 Arthur Felsenstein Leavers Award at the Purcell School, and was also awarded the Woodwind Prize. While studying at the RCM Junior Department he won several prizes including the Sally Wainwright Woodwind Prize and Ida Mabbett/Frida Dinn Prize.

Other prizes include Joint winner of the 2014 Nonclassical Record Label 'Battle of the bands', Gregynog Young Wind Player of the year 2013, and 1st Prize in the Brighton 'Springboard' Concerto Competition.

Daniel has played concerti with orchestras including the Czech National Symphony Orchestra, Amadeus Orchestra and Kingston Chamber Orchestra.

As an orchestral flautist he has played with the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain, Purcell School Symphony Orchestra and the London Schools Symphony Orchestra, enjoying playing regularly at the UK's top venues, and under the baton of conductors such as Paul Daniel, John Rutter, John Wilson, Simone Young and Vasily Petrenko. 

Daniel has played as a soloist on Chinese Television several times, including a concert filmed in August 2012 for the Chinese Olympic team at the Waldorf Hilton Hotel. He was the youngest featured soloist at the Eighth International British Flute Society Convention 2012. He has performed in distinguished venues for societies such as the Royal Albert Hall's 'Classical Coffee Mornings', Leeds International Concerts Season, Purcell School Wigmore Hall Series and at Cadogan Hall for Vladimir Spikakov International Young Musicians Foundation. As a Chamber Musician Daniel has performed in many combinations, including with his Wind Quintet from Purcell at Wigmore Hall and Live on Radio 3's 'In Tune'. 

As a composer himself Daniel is extremely interested in new music, and has premiered new pieces for Flute by young composers such as Kristina Arakelyan, Philip Dutton, Joshua Hagley and Sophie Sparkes.